a tear in the ozone layer sends down
freezing mist to the earth's surface it
kills everything it touches how will the
world fight back today we'll go through
an adventure thriller film from 2010
called arctic blast sport is ahead the
whole world will be covered in freezing
fog we don't know if the ice age will
return but it'll surely get weird we
have warned you this is just my opinion
on the movie and not a substitute for
watching it feel free to watch the movie
first for the whole experience links to
download and stream the movie are in the
description box give the video a quick
like and subscribe to our channel
suggest some movies you'd like us to
cover in the comments or join our
discord server now let's get right into
it at the beginning of the movie a voice
tells us that the coldest part of the
earth is not the north or the south pole
sounds wrong to me but then he clarifies
it's 35 miles above us he meant the
mesosphere an area in the atmosphere
where the temperature can fall to
negative 140 degrees and below he goes
on to say that the ozone layer has been
protecting the people of the earth from
the cold until now a man named jack tate
is a field researcher in the
international climate research
organization icro hobart australia jack
is talking to his colleague alex who's
in an icro research ship named north
star 500 miles south of australia
meanwhile the world observes a solar
eclipse in fascination jack and alex
talk about the depleting ozone layer
because of the eclipse but they do not
think much of it i have a feeling
they'll regret it the science guys
observe the temperature of the
mesosphere drop by 20 degrees but still
dismiss it a view of the earth from
space shows us something going on in the
ocean but it's too far away for me to
tell what well no later jack receives a
call from his wife emma who is with
their divorce lawyer she informs him
that he is 20 minutes late for their
appointment he's late for their divorce
i wonder why she's divorcing him jack
quickly rushes to the appointment and
meets them then we see the thing on the
ocean again it's getting bigger a closer
view shows us that it's a massive vapor
coming down from the ozone layer and the
north star ship alex notices the
temperature graph goes straight down the
dense vapor thingy whooshes over the
ship and freezes everything it touches
the computer chairs literally everything
eventually it freezes alex
everyone on the ship dies meanwhile jack
and emma talk about their failing
relationship because of jack's work he
was too indulged in work to give time to
his family jack persuades her with the
classic i will change i promise
notice how the lawyer didn't say a word
during the meeting weird at home his
daughter naomi tate is mad at him for
forgetting her 16th birthday the man has
nothing right going on in his life let's
wait till he finds out about alex's
death the following morning jack gets an
emergency call that informs him of alex
and the other crew's death he and his
co-worker zoe go to the site to
investigate they see the ship crashed
onto the shore inside everything is damp
and slippery yes because it was all
frozen some time ago but our main man
doesn't know that they rely on alex's
hard drive to understand what happened
jack calls his boss walter winslow and
informs him of the 15 deaths suffice to
say he is shocked and asks jack for the
cause of the death from alex's hard
drive they find out that there was some
kind of tear or rift in the ozone but
since the drive is soaked in water it
only provides vague data a weather news
channel in sydney also notices the
sudden drop in temperature in certain
parts of the ocean but dismisses it alex
did that too and look what happened to
him jack then visits his wife who is
also a forensic doctor at the hospital
she is working on alex's and the others
is deaths keeping the divorce talk aside
they discuss the case she finds out that
they died because the fluids inside
their bodies were completely frozen it
seems impossible to jack he gets back to
the headquarters and calls walter jack
has potentially figured out the reason
for their deaths that was quick he
believes that the solar eclipse caused a
rift in the ozone layer letting the icy
cold air from the mesosphere leak into
the earth's surface the cold vapor dense
mist thing is called the cold front the
cold front is negative 140 degrees cold
that's negative 90 degrees celsius and
water freezes at zero degrees so you get
my point the cold front is really
cold jack wants to access the data from
another satellite to confirm the rift in
the ozone but the boss cannot allow that
after the call jack tells zoe that
they're gonna be very bad it turns out
he has a way to access a military
satellite just like that problem solved
he simply puts in a passcode and gains
access to the satellite data easy peasy
he types in something quickly and claims
that he is done jack then leaves to
inform the media and put an emergency
response into action he doesn't trust
his boss meanwhile naomi third wheels
with her friend and her friend's
boyfriend to a beach and guess what's
about to hit the beach the cold front
jack is having lunch with the media
person brent while talking about how
people are gonna die if they do not
release an emergency statement bran can
lose his job if he releases the
statement based on an unreliable source
aka jack now since jack cannot save the
whole world he settles with saving his
family he drives to naomi's school while
calling emma to come to the lab because
it's safer at the school he figures
naomi has left for the beach that the
cold front is about to hit we see naomi
and her friends arrive at the beach
while jack rushes to save them he's
calling her repeatedly but she doesn't
pick up nami's about to be grounded for
the rest of her life their guy friend is
surfing when they notice the dense fog
coming their way the teens find it so
freaking cool and start instagraming it
i don't want to call them dumb i would
have done the same jack finally reaches
the beach and starts explaining to naomi
what the fog is between fight and flight
he chooses knowledge jack asks their guy
friend to come out of the water but the
dumbass instead asks him what is the
matter the fog gets the slowpoke and his
girlfriend freezing them both naomi and
jack run away as the fog follows them
there is no way they could have avoided
the fog but because of the protagonist
logic they do the two drive off in
jack's car jack calls brent while
driving and says that he saw two people
get killed by the cold front and it will
soon hit the city brenn finally believes
him and runs to announce the emergency
to the people emma reaches her parents
home and is about to take them to the
safe place but jack calls her and asks
her to stay at the house since the cold
front is faster than he assumed everyone
in australia starts to panic after the
news is broadcast people do what they
usually do at the time of emergency
stock up everything they can get their
hands on electric heaters cables lpg and
so on back in the movie walter finally
realizes that jack was right but doesn't
acknowledge it he hates him for some
reason he asks his secretary to arrange
a meeting with some high class people
like him to discuss a solution but
doesn't want to include jack even though
he was the one who found out about the
cold front first the city of hobart is
in chaos people are starting to seal
their doors and windows as a precaution
then the awaited cold front finally hits
the emergency sirens wail and people
start to run why were they still in the
streets in the first place the fog
starts freezing everyone and everything
it's like the ice age all over again a
plane that was about to land in hobart
crashes into the ocean because of the
fog in the following scene a woman is in
a bar waiting for her death meanwhile
jack and naomi are in his car still
being followed by the fog it just never
seems to get them they reach the lab
where zoe is and run inside seconds
before the fog can get them outdoors
everything is frozen while the inside of
the lab is warm because of the central
heating system now the fog travels to
emma's parents home just then a girl
knocks at their door begging them to let
her in they bring her in before the fog
gets them the girl has severe frostbite
and is looking for her little brother
who got lost in the fog she better stop
searching the family helps her and
brings her warm clothes the department
in charge of this whole cold front thing
gets a call from bryn he's in a help
shelter where people who don't have
anywhere to go have gathered he says
there have been many casualties yeah no
[ __ ] brent a clip shows us the said
casualties our boy jack somehow does the
science thing and figures out a way to
stop the cold front he calls his boss
walter who has already found a way to
stop the rift he wants to launch hot air
balloons at the sky carrying gases and
chemicals that will close the rift in
the ozone but our main voice says that
it won't work and that he has a better
plan walter hangs up after saint jack
should just work on keeping his family
safe it's now night time and zoe finds
out that similar rifts have been
occurring throughout the world japan
london russia china basically everywhere
the first rift triggered further rifts
and will create more now the whole world
is in danger of freezing the icro is now
working with the emergency response
center erc they're working on launching
the air balloons into the air this is
their only hope to stop the cold front
if australia pulls this off the other
countries will follow just then even the
erc's headquarters are covered by the
fog but they are safe inside their
leader motivates the employees saying
that they are the people's last hope now
only an hour is left for the balloon
launch walter's secretary asks him to
get jack on board with their plan but
walter disagrees i swear he's jealous of
jack about something the balloon project
has an 85 success rate so the world
might still have a chance to not freeze
to death 20 percent of the planet has
now been affected at the royal
australian air force base 300 balloons
are prepared but nature has different
plans another cold front is about to hit
the base and their plan is about to go
in vain the leader of erc orders for the
balloons to be launched as soon as
possible after they're launched everyone
awaits the results impatiently outside
everything is completely frozen a ship
carries two jets required for the same
mission but it's hit by the cold front
too the aircraft takes off at the last
moment and are saved but the carrier is
completely frozen along with its crew
walter's secretary is skeptical about
the mission success so she calls jack
she tells him about the carrier being
destroyed and sends him the link to
monitor the mission's progress the
balloons finally reach the target
position and altitude the aircraft from
earlier fire missiles to burst the
balloons and let the gas into the
atmosphere the plan is successful and
the gas is led into the air now they'll
have to wait for it to work and fix the
rift in the ozone layer after a while
the results come back and they see the
rift has only been closed by 14
walter's poor plan failed jack had
already predicted this so what's new the
fate of humanity is in jack's hands now
walter shamelessly calls jack and asks
him about his plan jack wants to launch
three jets with ammonium nitrate which
will be ignited and activated by the
lightning in the atmosphere above the
ozone rift this will repair the broken
ozone layer walter agrees with the plan
and contacts stratton oakmount new york
for the rockets he asks jack to
calculate the target and payload as
quickly as possible and hangs up jack
gets to work and starts the calculation
but just then zoe falls unconscious she
is diabetic and her insulin has gone
down jack takes it upon himself to fetch
insulin for zoe yes the cold outside is
fatal but now that our protagonist has
to go outside it has changed to negative
50 degrees celsius which is just enough
for him to survive he asks nami to help
zoe and goes out to his car he somehow
manages to get to a pharmacy where he's
attacked by the owner for trespassing
after saying that humans have brought
this upon themselves to a dying person
he takes the insulin and comes back
meanwhile the girl rescued by emma
earlier dies on the couch as emma cries
mourning the stranger's death at the lab
walter calls jack and is surprised when
naomi picks up he asks the girl to send
them the calculations however as naomi
works the generator in the lab stops
working the stratton ogmons official
calls walter to tell him that the jet
space will be attacked by a cold front
in just a few minutes and they need the
calculations quickly but jack is out of
contact he finally reaches the lab and
injects zoe with the insulin then he
fixes the generator he's a scientist a
doctor an electrician you name it jack
successfully gets the light back and
sends the data to walter who then sends
it to the place it needed to be sent the
jets take off and spread the chemicals
right above the rift the lightning gets
aggressive as everyone in the lab and
erc watches the monitor in anticipation
a view of the earth from space shows us
the rift getting smaller walter finally
announces that the ozone levels have
jumped to 80 percent
everyone celebrates success and
happiness back at emma's parents's a car
parks outside naomi runs out of it to
hug her mother jack and emma kiss
finally having solved their relationship
issues after almost dying so that's how
the movie arctic blast goes hope you
liked the video don't forget to leave a
like and comment i'll see you next time